
# DREEM Clustering Module
Contributors: Matty Allan, Scott Grote, Yves Martin

## Purpose
- Cluster the bitvector using EM clustering

## Interface

### Input files
- [=1] `reference.fasta`. Fasta file containing the reference for each sequence of the bitvectors. 
- [≥1] ```/{sample_X}``` Sequence alignment map files folder(s) generated by ```bitvector```. Its content is the following:
```
/{sample_A}           /{sample_B}            ...
  construct_1.orc       construct_1.orc        ...
  construct_2.orc       construct_2.orc        ...
  construct_3.orc       construct_2.orc        ...
  ...
```
- [≤1] `library.csv`. CSV file containing the following columns:
  - `construct`: name of a sequence in the fasta file, corresponding to a bitvector name.
  - `section`: name of a sub-sequence of the construct's sequence, to cluster. If this cell is empty, default value is '"section_start-section_stop"`.
  - `section_start`: 0-index of the start of this sub-sequence w.r.t the global sequence.
  - `section_stop`: 0-index of the end of this sub-sequence w.r.t the global sequence, not included.

### Output files
- [=1] `{out_dir}/output/clustering/clustering.json`. 

This json file is structured as follow:

```
{sample A}
  {construct 1}: name of the bitvector file
    {section 1}: name of the clustered section
      {read 1}: read number
        cluster_1: likelihood that this read belongs to cluster_1
        cluster_2: likelihood that this read belongs to cluster_2
        - ...
```
        
### Command-line usage

```
dreem-clustering --sample [path/to/sample A] --sample [path/to/sample B] —-fasta [file]  --out_dir [dir]
```

- `dreem-clustering`: wrapper for function run in dreem.clustering.run.
- [≥1] `--bv_dir`: folder containing bitvectors `{construct}.orc`
- [=1] `--fasta`: path to `reference.fasta` fasta file
- [=1] `--out_dir`: output folder
- [≤1] `--N_clusters`: number of clusters
- [≤1] `--max_N_clusters`: use the optimal number of clusters below or equal to this value
- [≤1] `--signal_thresh`: signal threshold #TODO, float in [0,1]
- [≤1] `--include_G_U`: include G and U bases 
- [≤1] `--include_del`: include deleted bases
- [≤1] `--info_thresh`: #TODO
- [≤1] `--min_reads`: minimum amount of reads for a sequence to be clustered
- [≤1] `--convergence_cutoff`: float #TODO
- [≤1] `--num_runs`: number of iterations with random parameters initialisation
- [≥0] `-c`: 3 arguments: reference sequence name, start, stop. Multiple `-c` arguments are possible.
- [≥0] `-p`: 3 arguments: reference sequence name, forward primer, reverse primer. Multiple `-p` arguments are possible.
